# Overall Evaluation and Grading
Submissions will be assessed not only on how the SolidWorks feature was implemented, but also by the supporting documentation justifying and explaining why your implementation was high-quality. Teams with more people can achieve greater feats more effectively than solo teams, so be sure to drag along friends to come contribute! 
A qualified submission meets the minimum standard for each of the basic features and the minimum standard for one intermediate feature. A key part of meeting this requirement is the associated documentation per section, often requiring a justification or explanation of your implementation. Meeting the minimum standard will earn 5 points for that section. Only qualified submissions are eligible for getting a prize, and the top-ranking submission gets the largest prize. 
Each section also has some examples of ways that the minimum standard can be exceeded. Often, these entail using more than just the basic features of the given SolidWorks tool. However, further points will be awarded for realizations that are particularly efficient, clear, large-scope, and technically advanced. Your implementation will be evaluated qualitatively, with a maximum of 5 additional points for submissions that go above and beyond in the aforementioned qualities. The maximum possible score for this event is 100 points, although that would be very difficult to achieve without a decently-sized team!
# Basic Features
These are the fundamental technical features of SolidWorks, including areas covered by the CWSA Certification Exam. All submissions must meet the minimum criteria for each of the following sections.
## Sketches and Relations
Minimum Standard (5 points): Every primary feature-driving sketch must be fully defined (all black geometry). Otherwise, every not-fully-defined sketch needs a compelling justification in your documentation. Sketches must avoid redundant dimensioning wherever reasonable, instead using geometric relations to convey design intent. 
Exceeding Standard (0-5 points): Efficient use of advanced sketch tools such as sketch blocks, mirroring, and patterning to rapidly create complex geometry while minimizing the number of inputs. Use of equations or global variables to drive critical sketch dimensions. Smart use of external relations where necessary.
The documentation for this section does not need to be too extensive, however it is recommended that one or two screenshots of sketches you created are included in your report. Sketches that can be intuitively understood at a glance despite being complex would be best. 
## Part Modeling
Minimum Standard (5 points): The feature tree is logically ordered, and features are not reliant on fragile referencing (faces that could disappear depending on parameterization, for instance). Basic features must be used properly (using Extrude-Cut with the Through All condition rather than a fixed dimension, for instance). 
Exceeding Standard (0-5 points): Appropriate use of high-level features such as Loft, Sweep, or Boundary to create complex geometry. Creative and effective use of patterning (linear, circular, variable) to replicate complex features. Use of reference geometry wherever sensible. 
The documentation for this section should include a handful of standout parts within your model. Specifcially, you should highlight 2–3 features (a specific pattern or a complex sweep) and explain why that feature was the most efficient choice. 
## Assembly Modeling
Minimum Standard (5 points): The top-level assembly must be fully defined and stable, with no floating parts or unexpected degrees of freedom. Parts must be appropriately constrained with the standard mates (coincident, concentric, parallel). The design must implement at least one standard hardware component (such as from the SolidWorks Toolbox or McMaster-Carr plugin). 
Exceeding Standard (0-5 points): Strategic use of advanced mates (Limit, Gear, Cam-Follower, or Width) to model mechanical motion or functional clearances. Effective use of sub-assemblies to break down complexity. Effective use of reference geometry to mitigate external reference related issues.
The documentation for this section should include a rundown of the assemblies that you used in your submission, most probably the top-level assembly. Specifcially, you should highlight 2–3 implementation details and explain why that feature was the most efficient choice. 
## Manufacturing Documentation
Minimum Standard (5 points): There must be a primary assembly drawing that clearly shows the product using standard orthographic views. There must also be a correctly generated Bill of Materials with accurate item numbers and quantities. Drawings must be made for major parts, and dimensions are included on the drawing to define size and location.
Exceeding Standard (0-5 points): Utilization of specialized views such as Section Views, Detail Views, or Break-Out Sections. Components in the assembly drawing are correctly ballooned and referenced to the BOM. 
The section of the report on the manufacturing documentation must only call out which documents were made. 
# Intermediate Features
These are more advanced SolidWorks features, most commonly appearing on the CWSP and CWSP Subject exams. Only a single section must meet the minimum criteria for a qualified submission. 
## Geometric Dimensioning and Tolerances
Minimum Standard (5 points): Correctly identify and establish a three-plane Datum Reference Frame (DRF) on a critical part or assembly interface. Datum feature symbols are placed according to ASME standards. 
Exceeding Standard (0-5 points): Utilization of Datum Target symbols to define primary features of size or location on non-planar surfaces. Correct use of mating datums across two different parts to control their assembly relationship. Correct application of at least one Feature Control Frame (FCF) for a critical functional requirement.
The documentation section must explain the implementation of this section's features. Beyond that, the chosen tolerances must be justified. 
## Parametric Design and Configurations
Minimum Standard (5 points): The given parts and assemblies must define at least three key dimensions using the SolidWorks Equations manager. These dimensions must be used to drive geometry or spacing across multiple parts or features (the use of parameters must be useful). There must be at least three different configurations for one part, and these configurations must be meaningfully different. 
Exceeding Standard (0-5 points): Use of Global Variables and Conditional Statements in the equation manager. Management of configuration dimensions in the Configuration Table. Usage of assembly configurations. 
The documentation must identify the usage and justification for the equations and global variables. The same goes for the configurations. If the configurations make different versions of the overall assembly, the differences between them must be identified and justified. 
## Surfacing
Minimum Standard (5 points): There must be at least one complex body using a basic surface tool (Loft, Sweep, or Boundary Surface). The surface geometry must either define a solid body (Thicken or Knit Surface) or be used to modify an existing solid body (Split, Cut, or Trim). 
Exceeding Standard (0-5 points): Usage of tangency or curvature continuity between adjacent surfaces. Usage of Curvature Analysis or Zebra Stripe plot. Usage of advanced tools (Fill Surface, Face Replace, or Freeform). 
Documentation must cover the design principles underlying the used surfaces (ie the how and why). 
## Electrical CAD
Minimum Standard (5 points): The submission must feature at least one 3D path for a critical electrical cable using the SolidWorks Routing add-in. The route should terminate at two logical connection points. The routing diameter is defined and respects all necessary clearance constraints within the enclosure or assembly.
Exceeding Standard (0-5 points): Integration of multi-conductor cable harness or ribbon cable with complex pathing or multiple breakouts. Inclusion of a 2D Harness Drawing (Flatten Route) for fabrication. Incorporation of cable clips or clamps. Inclusion of cable length in the BOM. 
Documentation must identify the usage of this feature within the assembly. Justification for wire and connector types must also be provided. 
## Simulation
Minimum Standard (5 points): The submission must set up a basic study on a critical element by (1) assigning the correct material, (2) applying realistic boundary conditions, and (3) applying a realistic external load. The chosen analysis (stress/strain/displacement, fatigue, thermal) must identify the relevant Safety Factors and assess whether a part is over- or under-designed. 
Exceeding Standard (0-5 points): Usage of complex constraints like bearing loads, bolt connectors, or remote loads/fixtures. Usage of simulation to justify a quantifiable change in the design. Usage of more complex studies in addition to those mentioned (frequency, buckling, drop test, fluid flow, topology optimization, etc.)
The documentation must thoroughly explain and justify the setup and outcome of each of the simulations performed. Especially important for this section are illustrative, annotated plots. 
## Sheet Metal
Minimum Standard (5 points): At least one part must use the Sheet Metal Parameters to configure the correct material thickness and bend radius. There must be a correct Flat Pattern associated with the sheet metal part, with a Flat Pattern view including bend lines and dimensions. 
Exceeding Standard (0-5 points): Usage of basic features like the Base Flange/Tab, Edge Flange, Lofted Bend, Hem, or Jog. Implementation of advanced features like Louvre, Vent, or Form Tool. 
The documentation for this section must justify why the modeled part must be a sheet metal feature. Explanation of how the sheet metal features were implemented must also be provided. 

